### So Who Cares?  - 
When a scout or scouter thinks of Philmont are they thinking of any of this? Or are they thinking of shooting clay pigeons, hiking, rock climbing, or riding horses? Philmont is more than a pile of rocks and it is more than just the activities that take place within its boundaries. The land and the program are part of the equation, but they are not all of it. The history that the land has seen and the stories that the staff shares are part of what makes Philmont unique. It is what makes it impossible to transfer the staff to another location, copy the program and slap a Bar-P Crazy-S on it and say it’s another Philmont. The history program is heavily reliant on the existing relics of the past as well. What are Cypher’s Mine or French Henry without the mines? What is Metcalf without the railroad? While these things have outlived their creators they are not immortal - time rots them and fires threaten to banish them into memory in an afternoon. Care is taken to keep the mines open to program safe and the cabins used in program are looked after, but that is not all Philmont has stewardship of. There are countless other cabins, structures and relics scattered across the land and this report can only scratch the surface of what is likely out there. So what happens if there is another fire? The cabins used in program are of course the priority, but what about the rest? It isn’t feasible to expect every run down cabin to get wrapped in protective foam or foil. No one can expect hand crews to try and save them. So what then? Are they gone forever? Probably. Philmont is a massive operation, but does not possess infinite resources. But Philmont’s history deserves more than to jus go up in smoke and if it were to we would likely never know everything we lost. I believe that in order to know what, if anything, needs to be protected we first need to know what is there. I encourage the Ranch and the Conservation and Ranger Departments in particular to make an effort to record and document as much as practical. Ranger work days are an easy sources of extra hands for the Ranch, but many of the tasks they are assigned barely go beyond busy work or abused by other departments to give themselves a more relaxing day. This is not a productive model and the Rangers assigned these workdays know it. I propose that instead of tasks like these Rangers are sent where they belong- the Backcountry. There are absolutely times where other departments need help or task come up that need to be addressed promptly, but these can feel like exceptions rather than the rule. Rangers could be sent into the Backcountry with a GPS, a camera and a notepad and be tasked with bushwacking and area to find what is there to be found record it before it disappears. I doubt that many Rangers would complain if there was a greater focus on backcountry workdays and it would provide the Rangers assigned a better understanding of the lay of the land, and enable them to share more about the history of this place and its people with their crews. Even a Ranger un interested in history would likely get more out of the experience than moving rocks or maintain the trail to Cimarron. And who knows what they’ll find?
